Mechanization, electri ﬁ cation, and computing each drove dramatic and disruptive progress in the pro- duction of goods and services. Industry 4.0, a term ﬁ rst coined by the German economic development agency GTAI, is so named to promote the idea that we are at the dawn of a new industrial revolution brought about by the emergence, advancement, and conver- gence of a number of technologies that enable an almost real-time connection between the physical and digital realms. This digital-physical marriage, driven by additive manufacturing (AM), the internet of things (IoT), blockchain, advanced robotics, arti ﬁ cial intelli- gence (AI), and other related technologies, “ is gath- ering force [and will] be far reaching, affecting every corner of the factory and the supply chain ” (McKinsey 2015b , p. 2). Individually and collectively, the technolo- gies underlying the concept of Industry 4.0 hold the promise of reducing costs, enhancing ﬂ exibility, increas- ing speed, and improving quality, but more than that, Industry 4.0 offers the possibility of dampening the ten- sions inherent between these key operational priorities. The operations management (OM) academic com- munity must engage with Industry 4.0. From an ed- ucational perspective, we need to equip our students with the knowledge and skills required to manage the new operations and supply chain realities that will emerge. From a research perspective, we need to explore whether and how the technologies underpinning In- dustry 4.0 challenge our current understanding of oper- ations, and more than that, we need to identify the novel andimportant operationsquestionsthatwillemergefrom the advancement and adoption of these technologies. In this article, we discuss a number of Industry 4.0 ’ s foundational technologies, with the dual goals of (i) building awareness and understanding of Industry 4.0 in the OM community and (ii) encouraging OM research in this area by identifying opportunities and challenges. With those goals in mind, we will focus our attention on the operations implications of these underlying technologies and intentionally omit con- sideration of other potentially important domains, such as medical and ﬁ nancial applications. Further- more, in keeping with the spirit of the term Industry 4.0, we will concentrate on tangible good produc- tion rather than service delivery. Of course, with the rise of product servitization, a trend that may well be accelerated by Industry 4.0, the distinction be- tween goods and services is necessarily blurred at times. However, we explicitly omit consideration of smart operations in the public and retail sectors, because each is explored by other articles in this is- sue: the public sector is explored by Hasija et al. ( 2019 ), and the retail sector is explored by Caro et al. ( 2019 ). Within goods production, we consider both the manufacturing and agricultural sectors. 113 Downloaded from informs.org by [128.6.45.217] on 22 May 2025, at 08:12 . For personal use only, all rights reserved. As will become apparent, Industry 4.0 is not sim- ply an umbrella term for a collection of disparate tech- nologies. In fact, much of the promise of Industry 4.0 is in the potential interactions and synergies between subsets of these technologies; for example, advances in sensors and arti ﬁ cial intelligence has allowed for the development of collaborative robots that work along- side people. These synergies notwithstanding, we or- ganize this article by technology and allude to their potential interactions as necessary. In what follows, we give a high-level overview along with research implica- tions of the following technologies: additive manufactur- ing (Section 2 ), the internet of things (Section 3 ), blockchain (Section 4 ), advanced robotics (Section 5 ), and arti ﬁ cial intelligence (Section 6 ). Other relevant technologies are brie ﬂ y discussed in Section 7 . We conclude in Section 8 with some remarks on the im- pact of Industry 4.0 on operations strategy. We note that it is not the goal of this article to survey the na- scent academic OM literature related to Industry 4.0, and therefore, any papers referenced are in no way intended to be exhaustive or representative.