1. INTRODUCTION  
Maintenance, Repair, and Operations (MRO) items are parts 
that support the production operations but are not included in 
the finished product. MRO parts include consumables (e.g. 
gloves, goggles, and office supplies), asset maintenance 
supplies (e.g. grease, belts, and filters), and spare  parts (e.g. 
motors, valves, pumps, and cables). Although in some enterprises, the value of MRO parts is substantial, MRO 
inventory management did not gain as much attention as 
production or service  parts inventory (Bacchetti, et  al. 2012). 
In many cases, all MRO parts are treated with the same 
solution  across the board des pite individual differences . Basic  
replenishment policies such as ( Q,R) and ( s,S) are common for 
MRO parts inventory management.  
Sporadic demand and irregular lead -time are two major 
challenges in MRO parts inventory. Unlike production parts, 
which  have  relatively consistent usage, MRO parts are 
notorious for demand fluctuation. Many MRO parts are made -
to-order  parts  with relatively long and inconsistent lead -times, 
especially for aged eq uipment. As a result, manufacturers 
usually carry substantial buffers of spare and maintenance 
inventory to protect against downtime due to part 
unavailability.  This approach usually results in obsolescence . 
Emerging manufacturing and information technolo gies, 
dubbed Industry 4.0 technologies, provide opportunities to significantly improve MRO inventory management. 
Specifically:  
- Big data analytics, Machine learning (ML) , and 
Internet of Things (IoT) enable  real-time prognostics 
of the manufacturing equipme nt where failure of 
parts can be predicted in time to have a maintenance 
work  order  scheduled and the necessary materials and 
replacement parts delivered.  - Additive manufacturing (aka 3D Printing) can be 
adopted to make the lead -time shorter and more 
predic table for parts with long and irregular lead -
times. 
- Logistics 4.0 and new smart mobility models allow 
building efficient transportation networks to share 
MRO parts between plants and/or centralized MRO 
warehouses.  
Different types of MRO parts may benefit f rom different 
Industry 4.0 technologies, while some MRO parts inventory 
should follow existing inventory control practices. For 
example, the throughput and cost of additive manufacturing is 
still not competitive for standard parts manufactured using 
tradit ional mass -production processes and the part with stable 
short lead -time are still more economical to procure through 
traditional channels. For MRO parts with stable  and high usage 
pattern s the existing time series forecasting techniques are 
adequate . The  benefits of Big Data Analytics and IoT 
technologies will not justify the implementation effort.  
The detailed trade -off analysis is required for each individual 
MRO part to investigate applicability and benefits of 
implementation of Industry 4.0 technologi es. For companies 
with hundreds of thousands of MRO parts , this analysis may 
be a very daunting task. In this work , we proposed clustering  
MRO parts into groups associated with different strategies to 
leverage Industry 4.0 technologies to increase the efficiency of 
inventory management.  
The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses the 
critical characteristics of MRO parts and their effect s on 
inventory management efficiency. Section 3 presents MRO 
parts clustering technique. Section 4 discusses the 
implementation strategies of lever aging Industry 4.0
technologies for different MRO part classes identified in
Section 3. Section 5 concludes the paper. 
