1.1.3. IP Licensing as a Facilitator. At the core of any
type of solution is the digital file, which enables a
buyer to locally print parts. Selling designs rather
than physical parts creates a cost saving potential,
printing locally shortens order lead times and slashes
set up costs of production runs, from which both
OEMs and buyers may benefit. It allows buyers to
enjoy the originally designed parts with less required
inventory, and at the same time it enables OEMs to
focus their traditional manufacturing lines on high
margin and high-volume products. Conversely, it
does require OEMs to relinquish some of the existing
revenue stream from the physical production and distribution
of parts. Therefore, to motivate OEMs to
embrace the digital transition, a mechanism must be
in place through which OEMs can continue to profit.
To this end, we propose that OEMs act as IP licensors,
which is a well-established method in many
industries for marketing and protecting a firm’s innovation,
such as the telecommunication industry.
Drawing from the literature and practice of IP protection,
we adopt a commonly used license featuring a
fixed licensing fee (e.g., paid annually), and a per unit
royalty fee. This license form is similar to the patent
fee proposed by Ivan and Yin (2017) in their case
study in the automotive industry. We study how to
optimally design the license terms to maximize an
OEM’s total profit across both the physical and digital
channels and how effective the license form is in reaping
the digitization benefit. Such licensing becomes
possible with the recent advancements that allow the
auto-licensing of CAD designs and traceable 3D
printed parts (Hanaphy 2021, Sertoglu 2021b). Organizations
are indeed looking into this possibility, for
example, a U.S. Army directive states: “When negotiating
with industry for license rights to IP, consider
alternative license models that benefit both the Government
and industry, such as a fee-based agreement
under which a negotiated price is paid to the entity
that created the IP each time a part is 3D-printed”
(U.S. Department of Defense 2018, Everett 2020).