1.1.1. Challenges with Spare Parts. Among the entities
that will be greatly affected by digitization and the
rise of 3D printing are original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs) that sell advanced capital goods (such
as heavy construction equipment, military equipment,
trains, aircrafts, and elevators) or durable consumer
goods (such as automobiles and home appliances).
These manufacturers need to provide spare parts to
their business buyers over the course of the equipment
lifetime. The business buyers include the users of capital
goods (such as construction, train, and airline companies),
retailers of durable consumer goods (such as
auto dealers), or appliance service companies and part
distributors, who have geographically dispersed operations
and stock spare parts locally to ensure high system
uptime or off-the-shelf availability.
Providing high level after-sales service throughout
the life cycle of product ownership has proven to be
an important competitive strategy in promoting customer
loyalty (Cohen et al. 2000). Selling spare parts is
typically a very profitable business, with global
annual sales in 2015 of more than 400 billion U.S. dollars
in the automotive industry alone (Breitschwerdt
et al. 2017); this is mostly so for parts with relatively
high margins and volumes. When the price is market
driven or the demand for a part later in its life cycle
has gone down, supplying spare parts is far less
attractive (Ambadipudi et al. 2017); this inevitably
happens to most parts at some point in their life
cycles. For such parts, although OEMs’ production
and sales have typically reached a mature status, their
willingness to carry out regular production runs is
low: producing them complicates OEMs’ schedules
and distracts from the more profitable activities. At
the same time, maintaining inventories of these parts
is expensive. For these reasons, OEMs may decide to
stop offering these parts altogether (Geissbauer et al.
2017). In any case, OEMs have no incentive to hold
inventory for them.
If a buyer still needs these parts, it may be possible
to acquire them at high costs. According to a manager
in the airline industry (private communication via
email on February 24, 2021), an OEM in such case typically
chooses from three options: (i) specify a minimum
order quantity (MOQ), so that the cost per part
is not too high while setup costs are covered; (ii) offer
so-called price breaks so that setup costs are always
covered while no MOQ is specified, for example, buy
1 part at a high unit price or 10 parts at a low unit
price; and (iii) specify separately the setup and variable
costs. In all cases, the setup costs are covered by
the buyer. This is also confirmed by a case study of a
material handling equipment manufacturer: “Now,
the supplier lets the machine run for 10 min, and then,
you have to take 100” (Heinen and Hoberg 2019,
p. 812). The setup costs imposed by traditional manufacturing,
such as injection molding, are typically very
high. This, combined with the long order lead times
(resulting from the OEM’s lack of inventory and low
priority to start a production run) leads to high inventory
holding by the buyers (Chen et al. 2019). Given
that a buyer typically needs to stock many different
parts (think of 300,000 different types; Ambadipudi
et al. 2017), this means a significant inventory investment,
especially when accounting for high scrapping
rates (Cattani and Souza 2003, Heinen and Hoberg
2019). Consequently, buyers are tempted by alternative
sources with shorter lead times. Because of the
lack of original designs, parts procured from those
sources can be inferior in functionality and hamper
the remaining lifetime of equipment. All in all, the
OEM and its aftermarket value will be affected negatively
(Ambadipudi et al. 2017).