Digitization enabled by the invention of the Internet
has substantially transformed many major industries.
Among the most disrupted are industries where copyright
protected material is the central value of the
product, resulting in digital distribution of products,
such as books, music, and movies. For instance, CD
album sales in the United States have dropped from
943 million copies in 2000 to just 47 million in 2019
(Statistica.com 2020), and Blockbuster at one point featured
more than 9,000 stores but was down to a single
store in 2018 (Business Insider 2018). At the same
time, we see the rise of new household names, such as
Spotify, Netflix, and Amazon, the latter of which originally
started out as an online bookstore.
Similar changes occur in the manufacturing industry.
We observe the industrial revolution toward
Industry 4.0, where three-dimensional (3D) printing,
artificial intelligence and the Internet of things are
digitizing production, replacing physical inventory by
digital inventory, and enabling a switch from centralized
mass-manufacturing to distributed, customized,
small series production (Forbes.com 2017, Yin et al.
2018, Olsen and Tomlin 2020, Sertoglu 2021a). In this
paper, we focus on the disruption caused by 3D printing.
This technology, more formally known as additive
manufacturing (AM), makes small quantity production
economically feasible since it requires little
tooling and features very low setup costs compared
with traditional manufacturing such as injection
molding or die casting. Some believe that AM will
reverse globalization, with the long supply chains of
large multinational companies being replaced by, or
evolving into, local 3D printing networks (Ben-Ner
and Siemsen 2017). AM may further give rise to
so-called pan-industrialists: giant industrial networks
or platform services, built around an AM core, linking
and coordinating hundreds of business processes
from a multitude of industries with unprecedented
efficiency (D’Aveni 2018).
