1. Introduction
Additive Manufacturing (AM) is defined as “the process of
joining materials to make objects from 3D model data, usually
layer upon layer, as opposed to subtractive manufacturing methodologies,
such as traditional machining” (ASTM Standard). Synonyms
found in the literature include additive processes, additive
techniques, additive layer manufacturing, layered manufacturing,
and freeform fabrication. There is now a large number of technologies
which employ this method of manufacture, some of the
more widely used include stereolithography (SL), fused deposition
modelling (FDM), selective laser sintering (SLS) and 3D printing
(3DP). Since the development of many of these technologies has
occurred simultaneously, there are various similarities as well as
distinct differences between each one (Kulkarni et al., 2000).
Reviews of the numerous AM technologies have been performed
in previous works (Gibson et al., 2010; Groover, 2007; Hopkinson
et al., 2006).
With over 20 years of history, in its early years AM was mostly
applied for the fabrication of conceptual and functional prototypes,
also known as Rapid Prototyping (RP). These prototypes were most
commonly used as communication and inspection tools, producing
several physical models in short time directly from computer solid
models helped to shorten the production development steps
(Santos et al., 2006). RP remains the dominant application of
polymer AM processes and is well established in the market. Many
of the aforementioned technologies are limited to Rapid Prototyping
as they do not allow common engineering materials to be
processed with sufficient mechanical properties (polymers, metals,
ceramics, and composites thereof) (Kruth et al., 2007). The concept
of Rapid Manufacturing (RM) – “the production of end-use parts
from additive manufacturing systems” (Hague et al., 2004) – is
emerging today; though its economic impact remains modest (Levy
et al., 2003). There are few-large scale applications of RM, many of
which are for producing personalised products in the medical field
(Strategic Directions, 2008). Ruffo et al. (2007) provided a summary
of the pitfalls which exist for companies looking at the use of RM as
a solution for current manufacturing problems or wishing to take
advantage of this emergent technology, suggesting they are concentrated
in three specific areas:
 manufacturing processes and materials,
 design,
 management, organisation and implementation.
These issues are inter-related and this study centres on the
third of these areas, specifically focusing implementation of AM
technologies for production applications. It is inevitable that some
of the factors critical to the implementation of AM technologies
are also important to the adoption of other manufacturing technologies.
However, it is not the aim of this study to rediscover
these issues, rather this paper seeks to build on this, adding
insights into factors that are specific, or of particular importance
to AM technologies due to their unique characteristics, resource
requirements, benefits and tradeoffs and so on. The remainder of
the paper is organised as follows. In the next section, a short
overview of AM technology and applications is presented along
with an introduction technology implementation theory. Then the
research framework is presented with a detailed description of the
constructs and supporting literature. The data collection process is
then described and the results of the framework test are described.
Finally, the paper closes with conclusions, limitations of the study
and suggestions for future research.