6. Conclusions and future work
The case company has shown to provide support for the
research framework, its constructs and provided insights into the
relationships between the variables. During the analysis stage care
was taken to identify the reasons for the factors identified; to
identify those that may be common characteristic to AM implementation
in a certain environment and therefore a source of a
potentially more generic solution (improving external validity).
Some of the management and implementation challenges for the
RP convertor have been discussed along with potential solutions
and opportunities. It is important to acknowledge the nature of
the case study presented in this paper and the specific scenario
under study. The scenario investigated in this paper is that of a
company coming from a background in prototyping and implementing
AM as a new manufacturing process for production of
new products. It is expected that the influence and importance of
the framework factors will be determined by the scenario under
study. For example case, the challenge of changing an RP culture
and building a reputation as a production company are likely to be
less influential in a company coming from a background in
traditional machining and established in an aerospace supply
chain. In such a case, the challenges with understanding new
design for additive manufacture constraints and changing a traditional
production culture would likely have greater influence on
implementation success. Therefore, future work may look to
compare the approaches in these different scenarios, and potentially
map these approaches using the factors presented in this
framework.
Limitations of the study include the fact that the framework
was tested using a single case study. Yin (2003) suggests singlecase
designs may be viewed as vulnerable and Voss et al. (2002)
also advise that single case research limits the generalisability of
the conclusions, models and theory developed. Although these
risks exist in multi-case research they are somewhat mitigated and
therefore to improve the generalisability of the framework future
work may be focused on further case studies of AM implementation
in different organisational contexts and supply chain scenarios.
As the number of implementers increases the variety of cases
will be open to researchers. Though there is unlikely to be one
correct approach to implementing AM processes, this study has
provided an insight into the challenges with AM implementation
and has proposed a framework to assist managers in implementing
this potentially disruptive technology class.