2. Background
2.1. AM technologies and applications
As previously stated the numerous AM systems share some
similarities but have a number of distinctions. The first AM system
to be commercialised was SL, whereby a concentrated beam of
ultraviolet lamp is used to solidify a liquid photopolymer by
tracing a two dimensional (2D) layer in the form of a contour
and then an infill. Once the beam has completed a single layer the
build platform will then move downward in the z-axis, a new layer
of photopolymer is distributed and the process is repeated until
the final layer is completed. Laser sintering and laser melting
processes work in a similar manner, whereby polymer or metallic
powders are selectively melted in 2D layers, through high power
lasers until a solid part is complete. Another popular process,
particularly with hobbyists, is the FDM process. In this method,
materials, usually polymer filaments are extruded through a
heated nozzle to “print” 2D layers successively, one on-top of
another, until the part is complete. Whether through melting of
metallic powders or through extrusion of polymer filaments,
all AM process share the additive principle of building components.
It is possible to identify a number of key steps in the AM
process sequence. Gibson et al. (2010) defines eight key steps in
the generic process of CAD to part:
 Conceptualization and CAD
 Conversion to STL
 Transfer and manipulation of STL file on AM machine
 Machine setup
 Build
 Part removal and cleanup
 Post-processing of part
 Application
Holmström et al. (2010) suggest the unique characteristics of
AM production lead to the following benefits:
 No tooling is needed significantly reducing production rampup
time and expense.
 Small production batches are feasible and economical.
 Possibility to quickly change design.
 Allows product to be optimised for function (for example
optimised cooling channels).
 Allows economical custom products (batch of one).
 Possibility to reduce waste.
 Potential for simpler supply chains; shorter lead times, lower
inventories.
 Design customization.
These benefits have been captured in a variety of applications
spanning a number of industries, and different stages of the
product development life cycle. Examples include titanium aerospace
parts where only 10% of the raw material is required when
compared to the original machined part (The Economist, 2012).
Atzeni and Salmi (2012) showed the economics of additive
manufacturing for end-use parts through comparing the production
of landing gear aircraft assemblies, through high pressure die
casting (HPDC) and laser sintering. The authors showed the cost
benefit at low to medium production volumes, illustrated in the
breakeven analysis shown in Fig. 1. The benefits of AM have been
captured in the production of race car gearboxes (The Economist,
2012). AM facilitates the manufacture of smooth internal path
ways, providing faster gear changes and reducing component
weight by 30%. Similarly, Cooper et al. (2012) illustrate the
potential for improved functionality in their study on formula
one technology, applying AM to hydraulic component manufacture
gaining efficiency of fluid flow of 250%.
As previously stated the current dominant application for AM
processes remains RP. Rapid Tooling (RT) also makes up some of
the current AM activity which involves the fabrication of moulds
and dies. Regarding manufacturing applications of AM processes
(RM), notable areas of success include the production of medical
devices such as dental crowns and hearing aids, driven by
customer requirements for individualised products and AM processes
having the benefit of design customization. RM has also
been applied to the production of consumer products, including
high value lighting goods and electronics. The aerospace sector has
also found a number of applications, often driven by the possibility
of improving buy-to-fly ratios (as some AM processes have high
material utilisation, most notable metal-based process) and reducing
the weight of components through design optimisation
(Petrovic et al., 2011). Other areas include, automotive, jewellery,
architecture and defence applications.
2.2. New technology implementation: theoretical background
Skinner (1984) was one of the first to propose that innovation
in production technology can be used strategically as a powerful
competitive weapon, suggesting that it can bring to bear many
other strategic factors besides achieving low costs including,
superior quality, shorter delivery cycles, lower inventories, lower
investments in equipment, shorter new product development
cycles and new production economics. In Porters (1985) influential
work on competitive strategy he suggested technology is perhaps
the most important single source of major market share changes
among competitors and is the prominent cause of the demise of an
entrenched dominant firm.
Voss (1988) provided seminal work on proposing implementation
as a distinctive area of study of process innovations. The focus
on AMT implementation in 1990s was a direct result of many
systems failing to meet their initial promise, with project managers
unhappy with the system performance. In more recent years,
the advent of ERP systems and RFID technology has generated a
plethora of research articles on implementation as academics have
sort to create process models and frameworks to assist managers
in implementing new innovations successfully. Though AM as a
manufacturing technology remains in comparatively low levels of
exploitation, with AM production representing only a very small
percentage of global manufacturing, some authors suggest the
breakthrough is eminent. In order to take a pro-active approach to
research we focus on developing an implementation framework
based on current innovators in this area in order to facilitate this
breakthrough.